6.0 English From BBCLearningEnglish.com
Hello and welcome to 6.0 English from BBCLearningEnglish. I'm Beth.
And I'm Neil. You can find a transcript and worksheet for this podcast on our website
BBCLearningEnglish.com
So, Neil, today we're talking about animal migration.
That's the movement of animals from one place to another,
usually because of the weather or temperature.
Yes, for example, will the beast are famous for their migration?
They travel around the Serengeti in Tanzania and the Massay Mara in Kenya every year, depending on the rain.
It's often called the Great Migration.
Yes, and I have a question for you about this, Neil.
How many animals are thought to take part in the Great Migration every year?
Is it a, 1 million?
B1.5 million or C2.5 million?
Well, I don't know, but I'm going to guess 2.5 million.
Okay, I'll reveal the answer at the end of the program.
Now, will the beast are not the only animals who travel large distances?
That's right, many sharks also migrate.
They move to a different place because of the weather or temperature.
Trisha atward research his sharks and their migration for Utah State University
and explained more to BBC World Service program, the climate question.
Animals migrate for all types of reasons.
So, some of them migrate for food resources, things like mating or forgiving birth.
So, animals can migrate for food, mating, and giving birth.
Host of the BBC World Services, the climate question,
Sophie Eastock, wanted to know more.
And what kind of distances are we talking with these migrations?
Are they covering huge swathes of ocean?
Some of these shark species can travel massive distances.
We've seen great white sharks that have traveled from the coast off of Perth Australia,
all the way to South Africa.
Sophie asks, what kinds of distances are we talking with these migrations?
This is an informal way to ask how far are the migrations?
We can rephrase lots of questions in this way.
For example, you could ask, what kind of price are we talking to ask how much something costs?
Sophie goes on to ask whether sharks travel across huge swathes of ocean.
Swathes of ocean means large areas of ocean.
Yes, and in fact sharks do travel across large areas.
For example, great white sharks can travel from Australia to South Africa,
as a long way to swim.
But as climate change causes changes to the temperature of the ocean,
it's changing the way that sharks migrate.
This is a problem.
Sharks scare away other creatures such as sea turtles.
And these creatures eat sea grass, which absorbs a lot of carbon from the atmosphere.
So basically, when the sharks are around, there's more sea grass on the ocean floor,
and so more carbon is absorbed.
So sharks can actually help fight climate change.
In fact, lots of species that migrate are really important for fighting climate change.
Let's see more from BBC World Service program, the climate question.
Sharks aren't the only migratory animal that acts as a secret weapon against climate change.
Research that we worked on shows that by just managing about 10 groups of animals,
we could be taking out or sequestering more CO2 from the atmosphere
by about 6 gigatons of carbon per year.
So for perspective, some experts say that we need to suck 10 gigatons of CO2 a year,
out of the atmosphere to meet our climate goals.
So if he says that many animals that migrate like sharks are a secret weapon against climate change,
a secret weapon is something nobody knows about that will give you an advantage over a problem or enemy.
So we can see that by protecting sharks and other animals that migrate,
trisha's research shows that we could be sequestering 6 gigatons of carbon dioxide,
or CO2 a year from the atmosphere.
So question means remove and store the carbon, for example, implants like sea grass.
Six gigatons is a lot of carbon.
So if he says that for perspective, it's about 60% of the amounts of carbon dioxide.
Some scientists believe we need to remove from the atmosphere each year.
We can use the phrase for perspective to explain the size or importance of something,
particularly when it's difficult to imagine that thing.
Alongside sharks, another species that trisha believes is important to helping remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere is the world's beast.
Yes, and that reminds me of your question, Beth.
You asked me how many animals take part in the great migration,
and I think I went for options C2.5 million.
Was I right?
You weren't. I'm afraid the answer was B1.5 million, so still a lot of animals.
Okay, let's recap the vocabulary we've learnt, starting with my great,
move to a different place.
For animals, this is usually because of the weather or temperature.
We can use the structure, what kind of something are we talking,
to rephrase a question more informally, particularly one about distance, cost or numbers.
For example, what kind of distance are we talking?
Swaith means large areas of something.
A secret weapon is something nobody knows about that gives you an advantage over a problem or enemy.
If you sequester something, such as carbon dioxide, you remove it and store it.
And we can use the phrase for perspective to explain the size or importance of something,
particularly if that thing is difficult to imagine.
Once again, our six-minute syrup. Why not test what you've learnt using the interactive quiz on our website?
Bye for now.
Goodbye.
6-minute English
From BBCLearningEnglish.com